for something that he really had a feeling about.
You remember at the time, the agencies and services were all kind of up for grabs.
Who did they report to?
Did they report to the president, or through the president,
And Dr. Williams had no doubt with those agencies and services reporting to Dr. Miller.
Truth is, he didn't know.
All the time that we had been in the other plans, they basically had reported to the client three times.
And so that was kind of the end-all and end-all place for the agency.
If they made it, they'd cry every day.
They cried a lot of times.
ultimate administrator, and he had no problem with them supporting the Jarvis.
And you'll remember Jarvis then created a vice president, where I just saw a friend of mine who was here, and he was president, Calhoun,
He had turned down a job, I believe.
That's Mr. Wells' urgent.
Tell him, please stay.
We need you here now.
Please don't leave us now.
And I'll see to it that, well, he was out there reading the recommendations from the president.
And by that time, Dr. Miller had some recognition.
So Calhoun was deeply hurt and felt betrayed.
And he was out of it.
And they allowed Dr. Williams to negotiate
That opened up really my job again.
Because they gave, after Calhoun stood abandoned, he was dressed up pretty good.
They gave Dr. Williams a license to put his organization in place like he was.
And while they had first asked him to wait on the night,
And you'll remember, he had Wayne Stevenson and Bob Walker all going up there with him.
The chancellor's office said, please, ask them.
And they had a kind of summit for the doing with Walker and the three of them.
Let me add a little history at this point.
I picked up about 10 days in advance of the board meeting where the new president was going to be selected.
I picked up a rumor that Dr. Miller's staff was working on a plan that the board would get a lot of phone calls, letters, telegrams, et cetera,
in support of him, planned campaign.
I picked it up very, very, very indirectly, and I called a friend in Houston that I knew John Lindsay well.
And I knew that John Lindsay knew Dr. Williams well.
And I said, check this out.
Don't use my name, and I will never use your name.
So he called Lindsey and told Lindsey that he had gotten it from somebody that he couldn't identify, and for Lindsey to mention it to Williams, and Williams said, well, whomever your source is, you can tell them they don't know what they're talking about.
I'm the one to make the recommendation.
Jarvis Miller's name has not come up.
There have been no phone calls, no letters, no telegrams.
About a week later, I got a second call from this same friend saying that,
Williams had called Lindsay a second time and said, I'm being inundated, that they are coming in in large numbers.
I rode with Dr. Calhoun to that board meeting.
where they did not accept Dr. Williams' recommendation.
And I've never seen a man more calm in what must have been a very difficult day for him.
He was calm and rational.
And as I recall, he moved out of the vice president's office over the weekend.
It was empty.
And Dr. Miller moved in that office over in the Teague building.
Oh, Teague building.
In the Teague building.
And Dr. Miller was there on Monday and chatted with me and so forth.
I have been in Atlanta all week at a National Association of College and University Attorneys National Conference.
When I got home, I called my father-in-law and he said, well, guess what I'm with?
He gave me the information that there was an effort being called into Washington, D.C.
And I so well remember saying, well, you know, I've done a lot of work for Dr. Miller.
And when I think about, you know, who he is, what he's a form of freedom, and things like that, I can certainly see why he would be considered.
And I don't have a say in the world.
I'm surprised.
I told you.
So I don't know why I guess he wouldn't see any line with him.
I will say to you that out of all the cases that I've had, he's the hard hitter.
I can understand that, having worked for him for four years.
In fact, it was fair enough.
Mm-hmm.
But he can be tough.
He can be vindictive.
if you feel comfortable in commenting on this please do if not we'll go ahead i left to drive to el paso tuesday at noon
And Dr. Miller learned Wednesday night that he was being terminated as president.
And I got calls from reporters early Thursday morning out there.
I was unaware that that decision was forthcoming.
Were you aware it was coming?
Yeah, I knew that there was going to be a showdown.
Okay.
But Jarvis was moving the issue.
Yes.
By that time, Frank Huber had come on the scene.
And Frank, in Jarvis' own words, made Jack Williams look like a Sunday afternoon picker.
Mm-hmm.
Quote, unquote.
And he would call Huber the eye of power.
Mm-hmm.
Yes, yes.
I remember that.
Well, I met with Jarvis the night before the meeting in his office, like at 6 o'clock in the evening.
Mm-hmm.
And I was, like you say, I was in the business of rewriting, rewriting, rewriting, rewriting.
Here we had Hubert come along.
While Williams had been generally accommodating some of that.
I'm here to tell you, Hubert took the job with the determination to create a system.
and to make it stick and to be the head of it and to take on all of them.
Do you think some board members also encouraged him to do that?
I'm inclined to think they must have surely given him a huge life to do that because we instantly started rewriting those objectives.
I'm telling you, everywhere there was anything,
So, it took on a considerably different tone.
But having a pretty good person dictating what the report will be and, you know, how it's going to be administrated by the state.
Right, about the middle of the spring, one afternoon.
Oh, I'm sorry.
And that is that I didn't meet with those on that night before the board meeting.
And the whole issue was who those agencies were going to put in.
And Jarvis, it was a passion for him, and he felt it to the core of his very being that it was just totally wrong for them not to support him there.
And I beg you, buddy.
Do not make this a matter of life and death.
The doctor is not there for long.
But you're a young man.
He's not a young man at all.
He's a tired one.
He's not going to be there for you.
So buy a little bit of time and don't throw yourself on the railroad track over this thing.
They've got them in slams.
They've got them on the ground.
The reason I'm grinning is how similar what you said was to what some of us said to Dr. Miller the middle of that spring, I'll say March.
One afternoon, without any previous planning on our part, Vice Presidents Prescott, Koldus, Vestal, and myself as dean of faculties, we said to Dr. Miller, look, Hubert's going to retire in a couple of years.
You're a younger man.
If you do it well, you'll be up there and be in charge.
You can rewrite it however you want to.
And he agreed, yeah, yeah, I ought to.
But, you know, I'm so interested in this.
But he promised us that he would hold off.
But he didn't.
Let's see.
Now, I'm assuming in terms of the responsibilities that you need to get to this meeting soon.
Do we need to terminate this now?
At some point in the next ten minutes.
OK.
Looking back over all of those years, about what percentage of the Chief Legal Counsel's responsibilities dealt with Texas A&M University as an academic institution compared to all the other campuses and the agencies?
I would say close to 90%, certainly 80%.
There was a lot of research and a lot of issues that go around about what the Aggies determined.
It was a well-known organization, but in the end, it took Clare's care about it for a minute.
He probably won't.
Clare, he took its share, too.
It just was an area that legal issues
And of the other campuses, it by far was the most frequent.
Then, by and large, you, as the chief legal counsel for the system, you relied upon in-house staff.
Did you ever call on external legal counsel?
And this tells you how I would do that.
And right now I'm trying to put them together.
I guess me too.
But
I had not seen the best and only then because it was appearing in the right up, maybe after the first run indicated that the were in the play as being the
And so that appeared one day in the pipeline.
And he was so proud of that.
He was saying that he wanted me to get a plane.
And he had a plane.
And he was using our...
Well, I quickly learned that the play had been used in that in New York for months on end, or maybe years.
And so, Arno says to me, he says,
Let me run my press with some people whose legal opinion, the collection of all these people.
So he called Judge Coleson and some other people around Houston to get there to finish judging him and what he and him ought to do.
And I said, well, it was a very unified voice.
Say the hell out loud.
And, you know, I had to do so.
But there were often times when I was,
call from the external legal community.
Usually people with whom I have developed a relationship, and they're always wonderful and willing to help.
We were bound by the Attorney General to use the Attorney General with respect to our state litigation.
But from time to time, I'd be granted permission to use it.
We would get out that council sometimes pro bono and sometimes for poison.
We would all get wonderful help.
Some of it would be on the shelf.
Other things I could tell, you know, where Aggie lawyers would go.